The next kind of newer feature in
Figma then takes this with one or
two additional features.
We're gonna take the idea of auto layouts,
we're gonna take the idea of min and
max width, and then we're gonna take
kind of a new layout feature which
is this like equivalent deflects wrap,
right?
That's gonna give us some additional
abilities to create responsive components.
But we use in our design, so
let's take a look and jump into that.
So I'm gonna do this Tarantino
style where I'm going to show you
the ending first,
we're gonna see how we got there.
What we want to build is a component kind
of like this, you're like, yeah, cool,
it's a card,
I've seen a card before leave me alone.
But wait, there's more, I expand it, okay.
You're like, whatever, man,
haven't you shown me like six of these?
Look at that at a certain viewpoint
with it changes the layout, right?
And you can see that we've got this
it's bottom section here that kind of
stays consistent, we've got kind
of text that kind of reflows.
And then at a certain point, our
responsive design breakpoint hits, right?
And we can have it in different shapes,
and
I think it's got a max width of
1920 cuz I got carried away.
But maybe it should be less than that, but
it's got a min width, it's got a max width
but it does kind of reshape and respond
as you can put in different viewports.
And this is again super great
because like the ability to
use one component multiple places
in a design means that you
will have consistency when you
go to implement it, right?
It's one of those things that
like anyone working in a design,
having one component they can use
across different view ports and
have it be responsive,
makes their life easier.
And then for you as the developer,
makes your life easier too.
So I can keep,
I joked with windows before,
when you're checking in responsive design,
you just do this over and over,
over again, I can keep doing this or
we can look at how to.
Should we look at it in a minute,
we should look at it in a minute.
Okay, so I've got all of the component
pieces and parts, and I'll give
you a spoiler alert now, you're gonna
do it when I'm done, so pay attention.
[LAUGH] Or
you can just ignore me, whatever.
So we've got all of the pieces and
we wanna figure out,
how do we actually implement that
design that I just made bigger and
smaller repeatedly while I was talking.
Cool so let's go ahead and
let's try it out.
So this is a section so I can't turn it
into an auto layout if I wanted to, so
let's go ahead and kind of like give
ourselves a little workspace over here.
So we've got,
let's actually draw ourselves a new frame.
Doesn't really matter.
We'll go ahead and
we'll drag the image in,
we'll start out by making
that an auto layout frame.
Now, at first I don't need
that much padding Let's
give it like, I don't know 16 feels good.
So at this point, it's hugging the
contents, instead of that we're actually
going to say, fill the container,
which makes us now a fixed width.
Cool, so now you can see we'll at
least expand to a certain point.
And then this actually has a min and
a max width,
because as I was undoing design, like they
vanish when they leave an auto frame,
auto layout frame, so
I forgot to take that off.
[LAUGH] Right, and
now they're back that they're in here.
So spoiler alert, we can set a min width
to 268, a max width to 640, right?
For the frame itself, again, I just,
through implementing design
after design after design.
I always think about 375,
which is like iPhone SE,
which is usually the smallest viewport
that I tend to have to implement for.
Let's give this auto
frame a min width of 375,
which means we'll never hit
the lower bound of this image, so
you can could raise it,
it also doesn't matter, right?
Cuz the parent can't get
any smaller than 375,
which means the image will never hit that
268 min, but it doesn't really matter.
But it can get bigger, and
you could choose that I should have a max
width at some point, like in the exam
one I had 1920 because that's usually
the largest design that I get.
But like one would argue for
a card like this Because you should
have columns at some point, right?
But that's an implementation detail.
Cool, so we've got that in place,
so now let's drag in some
of the other parts, right?
That's going great, right?
So we can drag in this scan even better.
So clearly, we can turn off clip contents
for a moment here so I can see everything.
Okay, so one thing we can pretty much
figure out is that you've got some amount
of a flex direction.
Now we are gonna change this to a wrap
in a second, but we do know that these
are almost in every iteration of this
stacked on top of each other, right?
And so these two become
a frame that then get an auto
layout where we'll have
it become vertical.
Now clearly that does not solve
all of my problems for me, but
it gets me Be part of the way there.
So then the trick now is we turn
on this wrap setting, right?
And, look, we're starting to
get a sense of that card.
Now we do need to change
the height to hug contents, and
we're starting to get
the beginnings of this here.
And so it will wrap now,
the interesting part here
is that the image has a max width, right?
So it is set to fill container,
but at a certain point,
it stops obeying that fill container rule
cuz its max width takes precedence, right?
So it'll keep growing, it'll keep growing,
it'll keep growing, and then it'll stop.
Right, cuz it'll have hit that max width,
which then kind of gets us
to this mode here, right?
So that's how you create that kind
of like flipping effect here,
the other thing you'll
notice about wrap is that
before we had one gap between,
now we have two.
We have one for the kind of,
the gap between rows and another for
the gap between the columns, we've got
a vertical gap and a, horizontal gap.
So you could theoretically
we could say that that's 16.
If I wanted more space in this mode,
I can say this is 32.
Doesn't seem to be much of a difference,
but cool,
this we wanna say,
this is also gonna be fill container,
this probably needs a min width as well.
So I could say 3 75,
I said these are 16, so
I could say 375- 32
These will also fill up their container.
Because it's, again,
it's a nested auto layout, cool.
And we'll actually have this one,
hug the height and
we'll have this one hug that's hugging.
I need that smaller one.
All right, so we start to get that effect,
cuz at one point they each have
their minimums that they need to be.
So at one point they can't both
fit in there, so it flips over and
wraps And
then we've got that bottom bar there,
which as you can imagine is just
another auto layout, there we go.
Cool, so let's see what we do here,
what I'll probably
choose to do here is kind of
start to lay them out like this.
Because I know that these are like kind
of one component this would be a div of
some sort in HTML.
Like when in doubt, you're like,
I don't know where to make the frames and
what to do.
Just look at it like you would look
at a React component or HTML or
whatever, right?
That same intuitive sense that you have
for implementing it and code, gives
you a competitive advantage when it comes
to implementing these designs, right?
So we'll give that an auto layer of frame,
and then we've got that date.
We can kind of give that
Wrap it in a frame,
make it an auto layout as well.
Okay, so in this point what we
wanna do is let's just tweak
this a little bit,
horizontally center it, let it be auto.
Cool.
So we've got all of that in place now,
and then I'll probably
wrap this all one more time in a frame and
make that an auto layout.
Right?
So we've got that.
We don't necessarily need all that space.
A little bit more of that.
Yeah, sure make it eight.
Cool.
We'll give this whole
thing a fill of white.
We'll give this earlier whether we made
And finally,
surrounded corners because why not?
I meant to do that for the whole thing.
Cool as I get a little bit.
That's when I should doesn't need the
padding anymore and looks like we've got
Then something similar
to what we had before.
And again now this is totally responsive
I can put it you know in a more if I put
this give it a min min width
to on this frame here.
So now I can put this in a mobile layout,
it'll look right,
I can drag the same component
into the desktop layout.
It will look, there's some little
teensy tweaks that I need to do,
like that and stuff like that.
And you can dial it in exactly the way
you want it, but generally speaking,
like we've got the general.
Yeah, probably a little bit
of men gaps here to tweak but
we've got the idea of the wrapped
component that we can use across all these
different implementations.
And this means that things
will be consistent,
it also makes the job of the designer once
they have this in place a lot easier.
Cuz now I can tell sometimes
I get designs where it's
like you bespoke made five
different views are, right?
As an engineer that hurts me, right?
Cuz if I bespoke wrote the same
code over and over and
over again instead of writing a function,
it's the same basic idea.
We don't code up five different viewports,
we tend to implement breakpoints in CSS,
and the same idea works here as well.